Collections
This week, Monday 13th November 2023, I have been doing a revisit of Collections in Java. This of course can translate to all languages.
It has been an interesting time of learning so far. I have been able to revisit the following topics:
- Queues
- Stacks
- Singly/Doubly Linked Lists
- Dynamic Arrays

Previously, I have not had the opportunity to learn about collections in such depth, it has usually been a whistlestop tour
of the subject. However, due to me having to cover this as part of my role as teaching assistant on a bootcamp I chose to go back to review this.
The interesting thing is that so far in my time as developer which is nearly 3 years, I have not had any se for these collection objects.
I have only really seen it in leetcode challenges or come across it in W3 schools while scrolling, or maybe it's because I
am usually writing code in Python 🤔 Either way it has been an interesting subject covered.

Quick definitions:

Queues - This follows FIFO (first in first out), where we add objects to the queue object. We can add to it, remove from
it and view what is in the list as well as what is first or last.

Stacks - This follows LIFO (last in first out), where we add objects to the queue object. We can add to it, remove from
it and view what is in the list as well as what is first or last.

Singly Linked Lists - This is list made up of nodes. Each node has its data and the address to the next node. It is really
good for removing nodes in the list (better than arrays when looking at complexity)

Doubly Linked Lists - This is similar to the singly linked nodes however each node has its data and the address to the
previous and next node. Also, the linkedlist object in java is a doubly linked list.

Dynamic Arrays - This is an automatically extendable/redactable array. Depending on the size of the array content it will
increase or decrease in size however still behaving like a regular array in Java.


Most interesting facts:
I did enjoy dynamic arrays since I had the opportunity to create my own Dynamic Array object from scratch which was quite fun.
It is always nice to try and recreate the functionality that exists within the libraries of which we are using which also proves
out why our programs run at certain rates.

Favourite type:
My favourite type so far has to be linkedlists maybe because I am practicing use of this type a lot more, but I do love a challenge
and hope to generate more with this collection type especially since I have seen where it trumps regular arrays in Java at times.

How will I use this in my future projects:
I am not too sure yet, I dont really have undo functionality or queues, maybe with a shopping site like on Black Friday
where there may be queues of people wanting to order online and the site could crash due to the number of users 🤷🏾‍

Learning tools:
Youtube: Bro Code